---
title: "Welcome!"
date: 2022-02-28
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - update
---

This is my first post! A bit of a test for now. It is about time I get a personal website up and running...

As part of an effort to delve into open source, both as a contributor and user, I've graciously bootstrapped this website theme from Minimal Mistakes. It seemed to have everything I was looking for - a lightweight implementation, easy to configure and update, seamless configuration with GitHub Pages, and more. I hope this will be a fun (and continued) project that allows me to not only expand my skills and develop a portfolio and a space to collect my thoughts, research, and interests, but to also gain experience getting involved with the open source community!

For the past few years, I foolishly held the notion that using an existing theme or framework to build a website was somehow "less" than devolping one from scratch. Not sooner could I have realized the benefit to forking from an existing framework that not only supports my needs, but also has a community that is actively contributing to and updating the work. Regretfully, I have applied this thinking of "build a solution first" not only to the design and development of a personal website, but also many other tools and systems I've built both in studies and in work. There is a time and place to develop an in-house solution (and a great deal to learn from while doing it), but there is also a tradeoff to be considered for using existing solutions.

Of course, when push came to shove, the old computer science adage "make the common case fast" won over, and I found myself instead wishing for the easiest implementation possible to get a working solution up and running. Thus, here we are! 

I hope to journal some of my thoughts and experiences here as I embark on my journey through computer science and software engineering. Over the next few months, my activity may focus on finding the balance between using open source software and developing your own solutions, as well as what there is to learn from doing both. Oh, I almost forgot. Random musings, thoughts, and interests are always fair game.

Head over to the about page to learn a bit more about me and what I am interested in!

Email me at the link to the side or jwiaduck+github AT umich DOT edu

